Hi and welcome back to this tutorial.
Now that we have clean our compasses we are ready to take a nice them.
So tokenization is just this process that consists in transforming each word.
So each set of characters into one corresponding number which is way easier for a computer to process.
And for that we will use the very useful tool provided by the tensor flow datasets module that we imported
before.
So let's create this objects took a nice English and it will be TFG s which is how we imported the tensor
flow datasets.
Library features that texts that sub Woods texts and call the dots builds from Corpus and with the first
half to tell him the corpus that he has to use in order to build the token either an important feature
we can ask him to use an approximate number of words in this Kabul area and it can be quite useful to
have a lower number than expected because we could say that if if you want to count the number of words
in all copies right now it would probably be around two hundred thousand which is a lots and actually
trying to reduce this number means that taken kinase a we'll have to make some clever computation for
instance if he doesn't know a word like transformer let's say he might consider that it's a mix between
the word trans that he might maybe have in his vocabulary and former which actually makes sense goes
this is where it comes from.
So having a lower number of words can actually improve the performance of the whole model.
But here I decided to use something around eight thousands.
This is probably not the optimal one.
Once you have your whole translator working you will have the opportunity to play with this if you want
to test.
If it's better with a higher number or lower anyway this is the one I used right here of course as usual
we just have to do the same thing for our second corpus.
So he creates another to Kinshasa for the French language.
I would not run this cell right now because this recognizing face takes a lot of time just because our
Corpus is quite huge.
But after this is done we can create two global viable is that we will use later.
Which are the vocab size for the first language and the way we have access to this one is by using took
an idea a vote com size and we will add to just because we will add two homemade words.
Those are not really words.
Those will be Dawkins because this would be a token that we will add at the beginning of a sentence
and another one at the end of the sentence.
So those aren't really words but they will be used in our model and it's important to consider them
in the size of our dictionary.
And same thing for the French language F R and he f oh here we are.
So I can't read this one because the organizing phase hasn't be done of course but the final parts.
Once we have created AutoCAD NISA is of course to talk a nice all campuses and now that we are getting
closer to creating real inputs we will call our valuables inputs and outputs so inputs will be a list
of sentence.
Each sentence being a sequence of numbers corresponding to the encoding of words and as I said before
we will have to use starting and ending tokens so each sentence will start with the starting token that
will be vocab size English minus 2 which is exactly the the size of the vocabulary of the original NISA
and we have to know that if vocab size is the original size of the organizer the number vocab size is
not used in the encoding phase it stops at vocab size minus one.
This is why we can use vocab size English minus two which equals the original vocab size as a whole
made token.
Now that we are starting to can we can jests are the encoded sentence like that's we call to organize
a that's in code which is the method that encodes a string sentence into a list of numbers according
to the organizing creation that we found before.
So we encode a sentence and we add at the end our homemade ending token vocab size English minus one.
And this is for every sentence in our original corpus English.
So now inputs is just a list of encoded sentences we do the same thing here for our second language.
So outputs and we just change each e n by F are.
Same thing here.
Same thing right.
And finally
here.
Sorry.
So here we are.
We have something that starts to look like real inputs and outputs because I have a list of numbers
which is actually what concrete just prefer.
We will just need to do one or two last thing in order to have all finalized inputs and outputs but
we are quite close to start building our model.
But for now it took an easing phase is done so see you soon.